Jihoon: Hello, guys, I think we can start in, like, 30 seconds.
Justin Florentine (Besu): Good morning, Jihoon.
Jihoon: Alright guys, thanks for waiting, let's get this started.
Jihoon: Hello everyone, welcome to Fossil Breakout 31. Today we can share
Jihoon: Development updates, backup days, and then testing.
Jihoon: Right, so, let's start with development updates.
Jihoon: I know CL teams are busy with APBS, so maybe we can start with EL teams?
Justin Florentine (Besu): Hey, yeah, so on the basis side, we haven't done a ton since last call. We still have a PR out there, it's still in review right now. No surprises to report from the spec?
Justin Florentine (Besu): So, you know, it is basically mostly just engine API implementation and some building stuff, so it's going well.
Justin Florentine (Besu): It's just not, not a super high priority. Most of the team is focused on, optimizations and Clamsterdam stuff at the moment.
Jihoon: Cool, do you have any, like, rough timeline?
Justin Florentine (Besu): Mmm…
Jihoon: Or…
Justin Florentine (Besu): No, not at the time, at the moment, we don't really have a rough timeline. Certainly, Hagoda wouldn't be a challenge.
Justin Florentine (Besu): you know, with a typical DevNet rollout for whenever Hagoda hits, we don't see a challenge, but I would need a little bit of time to consult with Fabio. I'm actually going to be going on holiday shortly, and so I wouldn't want to try to commit to any usable builds.
Jihoon: Got it, got it.
Jihoon: yeah, I just wanted to ask you about, like.
Jihoon: What we can expect in the interop.
Justin Florentine (Besu): Interop. Okay, so I won't be attending Interop… Alright.
Justin Florentine (Besu): I mean, I would imagine we would have something build-ready for… for Interop?
Justin Florentine (Besu): Yeah, I mean, I mean… Probably? I don't see any reason why not, I guess.
Jihoon: Yeah.
Justin Florentine (Besu): the, the, you know, the testnets and the kurtosis stacks that, we would use to validate for that, once we get one of those, we can give a better, better answer. Or, like, once we get that set up, rather, we can give a clearer answer on that.
Justin Florentine (Besu): But A month. It's about a month out.
Justin Florentine (Besu): Right? So 4 weeks… 4 weeks from now for being able to join a DevNet, I think is pretty reasonable.
Justin Florentine (Besu): I don't really see a problem with that.
Jihoon: Got it, thank you.
Justin Florentine (Besu): Yep.
Jihoon: Nico, do you have any updates for Lostar?
nflaig: No, sorry. Right now, no real updates.
nflaig: I saw your comment on the Beacon API, but I also think it's just minor, like updating the containers.
nflaig: Yeah, I hope we have something for the indoor. If not, I think we can hack something together in, like, a few hours.
nflaig: I think it's pretty simple, to be honest.
Jihoon: Yeah, no worries. But was my comment on BigCon API?
nflaig: I think this is currently based on Fulu,
nflaig: But I don't see major changes to rebase it on Glores.
Jihoon: Right, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I was updating all specs, so I was just, I just wanted to ask if there is anything that we have to make change on BigCon API, so… yeah.
Jihoon: Yeah, I wouldn't.
nflaig: Probably do this, once we update our implementation, and then we can use that as reference.
Jihoon: Gotcha. And if you have a time, then,
Jihoon: It'll be appreciated if you could review the spec yourself.
Jihoon: Because, yeah.
Jihoon: It is currently not reviewed at the moment.
Jihoon: But it will get reviewed over time, but still, like.
Jihoon: It's nice to have more eyes on the spec, so…
nflaig: Yeah, I think once we have our implementation, it's easier to give feedback there.
nflaig: Gotcha.
nflaig: But yeah, I can see if I find time to look at it.
Jihoon: Okay, cool, thank you.
Jihoon: Speaking of which, for spec updates,
Jihoon: I'm working on rebasing all specs on top of Hekoda.
Jihoon: Avery-based execution spec and engine API spec.
Jihoon: I guess you guys already have a link, but… It's a lead.
Jihoon: If anyone is interested. So they are currently on top of Amsterdam.
Jihoon: And I can update it from time to time, just in case Amsterdam changes.
Jihoon: CL spec is already on top of Hazy, but…
Jihoon: There will be some changes regarding deadline.
Jihoon: The gist of it is… so currently we have two deadlines. IELT submission deadline at 9 seconds into the slot.
Jihoon: And proposals cut off at 11 seconds into the slot.
Jihoon: And I think we should add another deadline for a tester's cutoff at, let's say, 12 seconds into the slot.
Jihoon: This was found by Mikhail around 9 months ago.
Jihoon: well, there is another deadline, which is 8 seconds into the slot, but as Nico pointed out nearly a year ago, I think this should be removed. This is just…
Jihoon: Implementation-dependent example.
Jihoon: So the reason why we need this new 12-second deadline is…
Jihoon: to prevent split view among the testers, let's say there is an inclusion list, that…
Jihoon: the block fails to satisfy, and that IR committee member actually equivocates.
Jihoon: which, in turn, should make that block become canonical, but let's say that that equivocation happens at 2 seconds into the swap. So.
Jihoon: Then, attester who saw the block before 2 seconds will vote against it, while a tester who saw it after will vote for it. So if
Jihoon: Half of a tester vote for it, half of a tester vote against it, because they haven't seen that equivocating intellectualist, we're gonna have a split view.
Jihoon: It's… this is still work in progress, and I think I can continue working on it.
Jihoon: After 8cc… And… Once it's done, I will also update the AEIP,
Jihoon: So, yeah, that's for the spec updates.
Jihoon: Before we jump to… testing updates? Do we have any questions or comments?
Jihoon: Otherwise, we can just move on.
Jihoon: So for testing, I guess you guys already know, but there are…
Jihoon: all types of tests that we can do on the CL. Reference tests, buzzing, deafness, and compliance tests. Among these, we can focus on
Jihoon: Reference test for a while, and extend testing over time.
Jihoon: On the EL side, we will be working on a steel team.
Jihoon: We don't have anyone from Steel Team today, but this is… Asia Tracker… for AL testing.
Jihoon: So…
Jihoon: the idea… we had a call with Steel Team the other day, and the idea is to update the testing infra in the East to support Enclosure East, and then start from there.
Jihoon: Besides that, besides specs, updates.
Jihoon: Nothing special updates we have today, but I expect we can make some progress after 8CC.
Jihoon: And that's all for testing updates.
Jihoon: Yeah, so, before we wrap up this call.
Jihoon: Does anyone have any comments or questions?
Jihoon: Thank you, Nika.
Jihoon: And thank you for your comments.
Jihoon: From, a year ago.
Jihoon: I wanted to find that comment, but I guess it's not on Discord, I think it's on some PR, but yeah. I've been thinking about it from time to time, and now it's time to update it, so yeah.
Jihoon: Alright, I think that's it for today. If anyone here goes HCC, we can see each other there.
Jihoon: Otherwise, let's catch up in 2 weeks. Thank you, guys!
nflaig: Thanks, everyone.
Fabio Di Fabio: Yep.
Jihoon: Bye-bye.